---
title: '78'
created: '2019-09-04T10:02:37.548Z'
modified: '2019-09-04T10:02:38.775Z'
---

78

**In 2012** at the moment of writing, it was clear that W3C decided to abandon XHTML for HTML 5. This decision was motivated by several reasons:

*   Only few people were really interested in XHTML. Most of the websites were written in plain HTML.

*   Even fewer really understood what XHTML is about and how to use it. Too many websites which pretended to serve XHTML used wrong headers, instead of `Content-Type: application/xhtml+xml`.

*   Even when you fully understand what XHTML is and what must be the headers, the thing is really tricky with some crappy browsers not accepting/supporting `application/xhtml+xml` content type. This meant that you had to change the header according to the browser.

*   The XML part of XHTML also caused some weird situations the developers had to solve. One is `INVALID_STATE_ERR: DOM Exception 11` message appearing when you assign the text containing HTML characters (like `&eacute;`) to an element within the XHTML page. When you encounter this error with its very helpful message in a large web application after doing an AJAX request, you have really no idea if it's the fault of JQuery, AJAX, or something else.

*   Writing HTML 5 code doesn't mean mixing up tags all around. If you're passionate about XML and XHTML, you can still write HTML 5 code which will look very close to XML.

*   In the early days of mobile phones, XHTML was interesting for the mobile devices which were not very powerful. Parsing XML is much easier than HTML. Now, with dual\-core mobile devices, it really doesn't matter if they have to parse clean valid XML or dirty HTML full of hacks and mixed tags.

**The spec of October 2014** mentions [XHTML syntax](http://www.w3.org/TR/html5/). For the moment, it is unclear whether there is such a thing as the new XHTML *language* (not *syntax*), and if there is, what will be the position of XHTML, nor the adoption of the new XHTML standard by the mainstream browsers.
